Hi everyone.
Today is Friday, May the 1st.
Everybody's looking forward to Cinco de
Mayo, I am sure. Just
our general public finds [laughter]
any reason we can to drink.
So,
>> [laughter]
>> um moving on.
Welcome to the Money Ball Morning
Report. My name is Anne-Marie Bant.
Charts by TrendSpider, gamma flows by
Menter Q, and forensic data
analysis from tradewave.ai.
Okay, let's get started. We're going to
look at the E-mini S&P right here.
Something very important happened
yesterday. So,
have a look at I did a class on the
Topstep Discord. If you are so inclined
to go in there, it's Coach Anne-Marie.
And um
that's uh
that's something that I do there, but I
want to show you something about the
1-minute formation.
And what we do
when traders plant the flag
into the beginning of a day. So, have a
have a look.
So, here we are.
Right?
This is the 9:30 to 9:31 candlestick.
The traders came in right away and began
to sell it off. Now, as you know, I was
short there.
And the I was actually short up here,
but I said, "Hey, I think we rotate back
down."
And one of the things I said was, "If
this candle gets recovered, look at the
volume."
It was How many contracts is that?
Chuck's, um
I don't know how many contracts that is.
I can't read there. It doesn't show me
the volume. So weird. Okay, a lot of
contracts. I said, "Listen, if it
recovers
the high of this candle where everybody
planted the flag and said, 'We're going
short,'
pull all your shorts off
because this is going up."
Two reasons. One,
it was the call wall. So, what happens
when a call wall gets breached?
And this is This is what happens to
somebody when they're not dialed in like
me. I was not dialed in yesterday. Very
annoying.
But here's what happens. The call wall
comes in. We know a lot of traders have
sold that call for credit.
When that call wall gets breached, their
gamma
slips from negative
to positive.
And remember, a market maker wants to
have a zero gamma. They do not want to
have an expanding gamma in either
direction because it's going to force
them into the market.
All you need to know is the call wall
was 7200. It got breached.
They tried to push down. Look at how
many times they're pushing down here,
back before prior days, pushing down
today, excuse me, yesterday, trying to
push down and holding that edge and
holding that edge, and finally
capitulation
and they have to buy the market. Why?
Because now they're upside down in their
trades. And so this is all forced by the
entire day was a short squeeze.
The entire day. Now,
here's [snorts] where the call wall is
now.
It's at 7250.
The put wall
has not moved. It's still 7100.
This should tell you something.
When the put wall does not rise after
the breach of the call wall, they are
expecting an exhaustion event to occur
for price to come back down.
If we're staring down the 30-minute
chart, we can make the same assessment.
And that is the following. 9:30 open.
If we breach the high
of that 9:30 candle that spent so much
time selling
and we move up above, you got it, an
upward sloping 200,
this market is going to move.
Now, technically speaking,
the moving average really tells you what
the positioning is.
The reason they move is the breach of
the wall because they must have gamma
as zero.
And when they break the wall,
their gamma becomes
something they don't want to have. And
so they have to buy
the price action up
so that they can come back to zero. If
that's too much, don't even fret about
it. But for those of us that watch these
walls, when the wall gets breached, it
becomes an accelerate,
and that means a breach to the downside
or to the upside. That's why knowing
these walls is so important. All right,
that's it. Let's move into the day. What
do we see?
Trend up.
Well above the anchor VWAP.
Momentum positive. But
here's what we're staring down. First
things first,
we still want the 7200 to show its head,
right? The nearest
/
higher support zone is 7220.
And that's going to be up here around
this calculated pivot.
It could also be today's pivot,
which is 7211.
Do we want to short this market?
Well,
this is going to be tough. I think we
need to look at that 1-minute candle
again and then zoom out and do it on the
30-minute. We just finished the 4:00
a.m. candle.
So, let's see what the traders did.
Here is
our 3:30 candle
right here. We're going to draw a box
around it.
That is our market on close candle.
We just reentered it.
Just finished the 4:00 a.m. candle.
The 4:00 a.m. candlestick
did not breach this 3:30 candlestick.
That's something that says we have a
little weakness. We're also under the
VWAP. Here is
the Globex open.
We could not close a single candle body
over
that high.
So, we have weakness
in general.
My suspicion is that we go at least to
the bottom of this box at 7236
and then we start battling again.
Is that candle the biggest candle of the
day in recent past? Yes, it is.
So, it certainly is something for us to
watch.
Anchor VWAP down here at 7200.
7211 is our pivot.
So, here's the trade. Dips are buys.
But the dip
could be just as dramatic as this rise
simply because
we have ourselves a forced buying event
with the commodity trading advisors
the trend following guys
forced to buy this
because they were stuck at the wall. So,
two things could happen. One,
it forces them into more buying and we
move up to the big call wall, which is
now 7300. 7250 is the zero DTE call
wall, which could shift at any time.
But this is what we are looking at. If
the breach
of 7264 occurs,
we've got ourselves more upside.
It'll be forced buying again.
If
we can't breach 7264,
we're going to bleed our way back into
this zone right here that has got the
thin pockets of volume. All right?
Momentum and trend
are in positive territory. The momentum
is drifting. You might look at something
like a 15-minute chart to say, "All
right, what am I staring down?" It's
still bullish. This negative momentum is
just telling us they're looking for
support.
Okay?
So, we have to look for where they find
support. Looks like the zero DTE call
wall.
But you never know.
You never know what a day's going to
bring. It's either going to be But the
dips are clearly buys. If you want to
sell the top of this, you have to go to
a tight time frame.
5-minute.
You got to look at this 200.
If it breaks it,
it's going to try and recapture it. If
it can't recapture it, then you take the
short.
Right? You want to look above and fail.
And then once it comes back down, you
can rotate it down into the pit. But you
could see through all of these averages,
everything is in a dip buying formation.
Even if we go to the 1-minute, that's
the first place we might see a little
bit of downward flow, but you don't want
to trade on that 1-minute. Everything's
got to be relative to bigger time
frames, or you're going to get yourself
in a pickle. All right, that's enough.
NQ
Okay.
Same sort of thing.
The breach of uh their call wall
got moved. Now the zero DTE call wall is
above them at 27,700
and 28,000 is
the upper call wall. The zero DTE put
wall has really moved up. It's 27,200.
But the big put wall is still down here
at 25,000.
To me
that says they're still hedged to
downside flow.
All right. Let me show you what
uh
chat said.
That's not chat. It's um
What did I use? Okay. CTA positioning.
So take a look at this. The call wall
the the recapture of the call wall
gives us this flush.
And that's what we're seeing. We're
seeing this gigantic squeeze to the
upside. Stop the the video and read
this. It's very good
to
tell you what they are doing. Right?
Super important. And so
what we are looking at is
this.
Right?
The dealer gamma
amplifying volatility. And that's really
what happened yesterday. Okay?
So if we stop
rising above 7,200, they expect us to go
to 7,040.
If not, we go to 7,400.
Use You got to embrace AI, folks. That's
the way you're going to get better.
Because it's your personal assistant.
And it's a personal assistant that goes
out and finds information for you so you
don't have to. All right, let's take a
look. Highest volume candle of the day,
very interesting.
Was not eclipsed by the closing candle.
So
super important.
Here's our opening.
Oh, come along, Fred.
All right, I got to make this bigger.
Aha.
Here we go.
This is where I suspect they're coming
back into, 27,500.
Now
where is
Starlight line there.
Where is the closing candle formation?
It's this one here.
I'm going to make it left a little bit.
I know TrendSpider's expensive, folks,
but
it's very good.
Okay? All right, so here we are breaking
the 30-minute low. It just broke the
4:00 a.m. low.
And it broke the 30-minute closing low.
That's going to collapse into the
baseline.
Very likely. I would not buy a dip here.
I would look for If you're thinking
long, it's a look below
and go. So it's going to hold these
wicks right here.
If you're thinking a long, that's what
you want to see.
If it holds that, you buy it, it goes to
the top of the box.
The Globex
high
is
Excuse me, the Globex opening high,
27,646.50.
If it breaks that
we've got more upward flow.
And we have our walls above us
that that we can look at as targets.
What's trend? Up.
Momentum in positive territory, but
looking for support. Upward flows of the
moving averages, they're going to find a
bounce.
Does it hit low levels? Absolutely. But
they are looking for a bounce. For me
because I believe we're in a topic
formation
I'm going to try to see the failed
bounce to take it short all the way
down.
But I am trading countertrend.
And this is dangerous. The natural event
is to wait for these guys to change
direction. So if I do take the
countertrend fade I'm going to get out
very quickly.
Okay? I am not going to hang around and
stay in that trade. Okay.
We got those levels. Value area low for
the region, very far below us, 27,000
and
340.
I I wouldn't be mad at that trade. I
would probably
have a buy zone down here at 27,200
as I did yesterday.
We talked about this.
Buy zone down there. Right? Same thing.
Sideways chop.
Chart's trying to figure out what's
going on. So here's something
interesting.
I read a paper. I I didn't really
[clears throat] like it. I thought it
was kind of
whatever.
But
what
it talked about was the ability for the
YM to lead structure.
And
if the YM
moved ahead of the ES and the NQ
then the ES and the NQ would catch up.
And this is the storyboard. So the
question is
the YM still has not broken its high.
So it's not leading.
As a matter of fact, what it's
suggesting
is that price action is still in
rotation.
Trend
200 still up. Dips are still buys,
obviously. We didn't spend a whole lot
of time under that 200. We probably
might revisit it
in general.
But for this event
if
Look at this. This thing never faded on
the open.
So it absolutely told us what the rest
of the indices were going to do.
Now
is this a heuristic? That's a fancy word
that means a general personal
observation.
It could be.
But the
the the paper said, "Listen, the YM will
lead big direction. Not necessarily from
day to day, but overall." So what do we
want this YM to do?
If we're bullish we want it to stay
above that 330 low.
And that number is 48 49,811.
If it loses that zone
it's going into mean reversion.
And we'll see it back down here. Pivot
49,480.
Value area high 49,650.
Okay.
Bitcoin.
This was running. Right?
Bounces are still sell zones.
The question is
how long
will it stay above that 200?
My thought was, "Hey
if it gets to 78,000
it's a swing short."
Looks like it's headed there.
It might not come back for me, but if it
does
I'm going to take a swing short there.
What is the price action telling us?
Well
9:30 candle was the most important
candle of the day for this one.
This is so interesting how it changes
from day to day.
And if we do Fibonacci, we can see that
it's extended.
It's over the 200 mark. Here's the 250.
And then here's my number, 78,300,
something like that. Right? I want to
move it to the top there.
So that zone I'm putting an alert here.
Ta-da.
Okay. So that's that's what I'm staring
down. Otherwise
I'm looking for a fade. This is mosh
pit, folks. If you want to go long, you
could scalp it.
If you want to go short, you could scalp
it. But find a formation that confirms.
And what is that? You got to have a
downward sloping 200.
And
you want to pull back into your front
line supports
bounce and not make a higher high.
That's I mean, you might see a little
bit on the 1-hour, but there's nothing
This is might be a double top. Might.
But it's going to Everything's bullish.
So all it's going to do is pull back
into support.
It's a terrible trade unless you're
scalping. Okay? If you're scalping, you
can do that. But why not just take the
trade that makes sense?
Right?
They are above the put wall, 77,000.
Call wall
80,000.
I don't know what's going on with these
guys. Sloshing is my suspicion. Right?
Slosh.
They're back in this very high candle
event.
See, they're back in the box. So my
thought is they go from the bottom of
the box to the top of the box. And
that's where I'm going to short it.
But I'm not messing around in here. That
is a dumpster fire.
If you ask me.
Okay.
Let's go to
oil.
Okay.
So,
you know, traders, we are having a
little bit of fatigue.
We have news fatigue, and this
particularly happens in war conflict
because we get exhausted from listening
to the bad news.
Um and this is what is happening. This
is why
price action really is not accelerating
higher
as things get worse and worse, because
they are getting worse, right? I mean,
the longer
people don't have access to these
events, and the more it falls out of the
news cycle, the more we don't realize
what's going on.
I need to look at the yen today. I'm
going to get you guys an update on that.
Okay. So, what are we staring down?
Let's talk about trend first.
The pivots show upward trend. That's
going to match our 200 most of the time.
Momentum, slightly upward.
50, slightly downward.
VWAP, slightly downward.
So, what do we have? A cross current.
So, let's take a look at the biggest
candle of the prior day.
Here's where the intraday traders
jam themselves up.
Right in the box. We're still here. So,
what does this tell us if we're all
sideways and stuff?
They're going to try and get to the low
and then bounce. That's 102.
Okay? If per chance
they break above the pivot,
they will now be above the pivot, above
the VWAP,
above the 50, and sitting right at the
zero DTE
put wall,
which is above us. So,
people positioning in oil
anticipate short-term that prices will
continue to rise over the next little
bit.
Our long our longer put wall that is
going to go into the end of the month is
all the way down here at 85.
That's pretty dramatic.
That difference. It's pretty dramatic.
So, we've got sideways pressure.
You know, my thought is I'm I'm going to
hang out near the 200. I'm going to
watch it come in. Here's the gamma line.
This is the gamma flip. Perfect example
of the gamma flip.
Right here. It went from negative gamma
to positive gamma.
Broke through all of that
and then went for the races. Here is the
call wall. It's at 110.
They
absolutely obeyed the call wall.
They could not get pricing pressure up
over it.
And so, what are they going to do?
They're going to revert to the mean.
My thought is that that is the number
102.
Could it be a very sloppy move down
there? You bet you.
Could it break it? You bet you.
But as it looks right here,
if you're thinking about going short,
you have a headwind. You have the wind
in your face
because of this trend, but if you scalp
it and get out,
things could look pretty good for you.
This is my thought.
Okay. Gold.
The contract is rolling.
Look at this, folks.
6850 for the G GC3. That would be 60
Excuse me. 4660,
and this would be 4680.
Just shy of the short.
I did not get it
because I was just off yesterday.
I had some travel to do.
Just
off. But there it is, right there, the
rejection zone. Yesterday afternoon,
right into oh, yesterday morning, right
into the area, the failed retest. What
is the slope? It's down.
It's the 200 that keeps you on the right
side. You might go, "Well, why you got a
50 there, Emery?" You know, I often
wonder this myself.
My thought is I should just have a 200.
But sometimes the 50 gives me a little
bit of confidence on a tight cycle
event. But I really am thinking about
just removing it. It's just a pain in my
neck.
And it guides me the wrong way
sometimes, but sometimes it gets me the
right way.
But here we are, great fade
from this 4660
our support ledge
going to be right here
at
4560,
yesterday's pivot.
Here's the thing.
Is this Which one do I want?
We've broken this ledge in terms of
trend. But what we really are looking
for is where the traders rotated into
this instrument and started backing
volume in.
Take a look at this.
This is our 9:30 candle.
That's the floor of support.
Ideally,
if I were a betting man,
this floor of support
would be the first place I would try to
buy the trade, long.
Collapse into this zone,
fade.
If it breaks down, I want to wait for it
to recapture,
and then I could take the trade up. I
would be following the 50 in that case,
right? Because the 50 is up. The 200 is
down.
So, I know I'm going to be looking for
resistance, but this 50 being up tells
me, "Wait a second. They're going to try
and bounce here." Now, they could also
really bounce here
at 4580. I'm just not willing to take
that trade. I want it to expand into the
high volume area.
And from that high volume area, then
I want to take a look at this. This, as
you know, I use this once in a while.
It's typical volume by time of day. All
of it looks this color
right now because we just moved
contracts. It'll stabilize after a
couple of weeks, and that's why this one
looks like this because the contract
just rolled. Okay, let's go to spy.
This has been a very long
um
been a very long event. Okay. So, let's
get all these annotations out of here.
So, what we can see is that spy had this
gigantic box of congestion.
See that?
That's inventory.
Remember,
inventory accumulation
leads to inventory distribution.
We are going to distribute at either
a discount
People call that liquidation.
Or we're going to distribute at a
premium.
People are distributing at a premium
here. Notice?
Measured move
could take us all the way up here, but
what do we want to stare down? We want
to stare down the 50% range.
So, what is that number?
The 50% range, whoopsie, wrong.
The 50% range
is right here at 720.
If we lose 720,
and we do not recapture 720,
we will head back
to 715.
Only natural. See how far away we are?
This is a squeeze.
This is what a short squeeze looks like,
where people are positioning short at
the top of the ledge because they think
it's going to fall back into the box. It
doesn't fall into the box, and they're
short, so they have to buy to leave the
market.
And that's what it looks like. This is
forced buying. They have to get out
because they're losing money staying in.
If per chance we lose 720, and we
recapture 720,
722, 723 is next. Okay? Listen.
Tough market, but very useful
information happened yesterday, and
really
a great reminder
for me
that you always have to be
hyper-focused
in terms of what you're looking at and
thinking about everything there. And
that's why that 1-minute opening
candlestick gives you information.
That's why that first 30 minutes of
incredibly high volume gives you that
information so that you can travel
through the rest of the day. Hey, good
luck.
And um on the Benzinga show today
at 10:30, and then, of course, folks at
the Benzinga Pro Hour, we'll see you
guys at 11:30. All right? Take care,
everybody.
Be safe.